hey what's up and welcome to today's
episode of build your tribe where we are
going to be talking about the hottest
social media app the thing that you
probably haven't been able to get away
for the past week or so and that is
threads from Instagram threads is as
many people have been calling it
Instagram's version of Twitter is a
text-based social media app that was
created according to Instagram to
facilitate more open conversations and
dialogue
it's been widely documented that over
the last few years Twitter has been in a
major decline we've seen declining
engagement and user habits their stock
price hasn't been doing so hot and just
overall the general feelings towards
Twitter haven't been so positive over
the last few years there was a brief
uptick when Elon Musk took over Twitter
there was hope but I think a lot of that
was just fueled by hype around the name
Elon Musk rather than actual Hope from
people who were well versed in social
media as to whether or not the app could
be or would be saved and we can now say
it's been a few months since Elon took
over and it hasn't been going so great
and there have been multiple reasons for
the decline of Twitter and we don't need
to necessarily go into all of them but
some of them include having to pay to
reach new followers that's part of
what's called Twitter blue which is a
subscription service where you can get
the verified badge but also you now have
the ability to reach new followers which
means yes if you are not paying Twitter
you are not going to be organically
reaching new followers which makes it
very tough to grow without pay and then
just last week Elon Musk made a new
announcement where if you pay for
Twitter blue and you are a verified
subscribed user you can view a maximum
of 6 000 tweets per day now most people
are probably not going to reach that
number so that limit doesn't seem very
necessary or beneficial in any case for
me but the more important part of that
announcement from Elon Musk was that if
you are a non-verified user you can only
view 600 tweets per day and if you are a
non-verified new user which means that
you're not paying and you've created
your account recently we believe it's in
the recent most 30 days you can only
view 300 tweets per day now I believe
people who work for Twitter might argue
that this is a way to combat against
bots because the likelihood that a
scammer who's running a bot profile or
hundreds of Bot profiles they're not
likely going to be paying for the
subscription for every single profile
because that would cost a lot of money
so I guess the argument internally at
Twitter is probably hey this is just
something that we're doing to combat
against bots which is one of the biggest
complaints that people have with using
Twitter is just the overwhelming amount
of bots on the platform but in my
opinion I think this is more of a money
grab and something that just doesn't
really make a ton of sense if you're
considering the users of Twitter and the
people who are actually posting on
Twitter and engaging with each other now
you're being limited to how many tweets
you can see in a day and I know those
numbers might seem high but I have
friends who have personally already hit
that number multiple times and these are
not people who are on their phones all
day so I know that's a personal
anecdotal example but that is to say 600
tweets might seem like a lot but when
you're scrolling through the feed you
could reach that number pretty quickly
so all that to say Twitter is not dead
but it's dying it's been in a decline
for the last few years and so a few
months ago Instagram decided to start
working on their own version of Twitter
Instagram as many of us know widely
documented copies all of the best
features from other platforms Instagram
store stories originated on Snapchat
Instagram video was actually originally
a way to compete with Vine way back in
2014 of course Instagram reels are a
copy of tick tock and now Instagram has
come full circle they've completed the
loop and they have a Twitter competitor
with threads before I even start talking
about threads I want to talk about how
Instagram has gone about promoting
threads and I know I'm saying Instagram
and that's because it's really Instagram
that's integrated with threads yes
Instagram is owned by meta and yes meta
also owns Facebook and oftentimes we use
the three interchangeably but really I
would argue Instagram is more closely
tied to threads than it is even to
Facebook and I think that's part of the
reason that Instagram staff their CEO
Mark Zuckerberg and pretty much every
single official Instagram account that's
run by Instagram where that's focused on
Instagram such as the app creators
account they've all been talking about
threads posting about it on the day of
the launch they all made posts stories
and shared within their private
broadcast channels about threads so all
this to just say it's a big deal and
it's something that Instagram wants to
be a big deal also speaking of that
integration that I mentioned a minute
ago when you sign up for Threads there
is a button to basically link your
Instagram account to your threads
account and Instagram CEO Adam masury
has recently explained that essentially
you don't have a threads account and a
separate Instagram account it's just one
account that you are going to be able to
use on two different platforms also as
you're signing up not only are you able
to select the same username on threads
as you have on Instagram but you're able
to sync your bio copy it directly over
from Instagram right into threads so you
don't have to worry about setting up
your profile or typing out a new bio or
anything like that you don't have to set
a new profile picture it'll use the same
one from Instagram and if you are
verified on Instagram whether you were
verified the old-fashioned way or if you
were verified with meta verified that
blue check mark will transfer over to
threads as well well which I thought was
a pretty nice and thoughtful addition
but probably the coolest integration of
all and one of the reasons that I think
threads is having such early success is
that right when you join threads right
after you set up your profile it asks
you if you would like to follow everyone
that you follow on Instagram and what's
really cool about this is now you have
an instant built-in Community you
instantly have content in people to
interact with and of course this is fun
for you as a threads user because now
you have content to consume and people
to follow but let's think about this as
a marketer as a Creator as an
entrepreneur that means that when you
join threads you're likely already going
to have some existing followers because
some of your followers joined before you
and they pre-followed you before you
even joined and then now there's
actually a notification where when you
join if they already follow you on
Instagram they'll get a little
notification that hey someone you
followed just joined threads so the
ability to grow a following on threads
is very easy very very easy especially
if you already have an existing
Following on Instagram especially if you
are someone who joins threads relatively
early myself personally at the time of
recording this we are less than 24 hours
after the launch of threads and I
already have more than 50 000 followers
on threads which is crazy because
essentially what's happening is my
followers from Instagram which I'm now
at about 650 000 they are joining
threads and just automatically following
me and so it's really cool to see not
only is that follower count quickly
Rising like going up super fast but the
engagement is super high as well now of
course this is my personal experience
with threads not everyone is
experiencing super high following and
super high engagement rates but if you
do have an existing following on
Instagram even if it's not hundreds of
thousands of followers even if it's just
a few thousand followers on Instagram
that's likely going to translate very
well to threads and let's talk about the
other way that translates it's back down
that pipeline threads followers are
translating to Instagram in fact we've
already seen that people are growing
their following on and Instagram because
people are choosing to follow you on
threads now I do want to make it clear
that even though as I said earlier it is
one single account it is two different
bases of followers so if someone follows
you on threads your Instagram following
count does not go up by one they
actually have to follow you on both
platforms because it's different content
ultimately they're consuming text-based
content on threads and you know the
normal Instagram content on Instagram
and I think it's wise it makes sense
that Instagram and threads even though
they are very co-connected and
intermingled together you do have to
follow the person on both platforms but
all of that to say if someone discovers
you on Instagram they're a lot more
likely to follow you on threads and vice
versa if someone discovers you through
threads then they're a lot more likely
to follow you on Instagram some of my
other initial reactions to this app is
that it's very fun it's very engaging
and a huge part of that right now is
that there's a lot of Buzz and
excitement so it's the fresh it's the
shiny object syndrome right it's the
thing that's going to grab our attention
but even more than that because because
it's so fresh because it's so new
there's not a lot of arguments happening
there there's not a lot of political
content there's not any that I've seen
spammers or robots or the cryptocurrency
crew who's just trying to sell you the
latest scam that kind of content at
least as far as I've seen isn't really
existing on threads really at least in
this initial launch phase in these first
few days of threads the primary content
that I'm seeing is I would call it a
thought dump or a public journal or
people just kind of sharing what's
coming to mind what's what they're
thinking about what they're doing it's
very raw and authentic and not very
curated not very edited and so maybe you
could take that as a recommendation for
yourself is when you're thinking about
what should I post on threads stop
thinking about it stop thinking about
what kind of content should I be sharing
instead just share what you're thinking
about share your thoughts your views
your opinions raw unfiltered typos and
all start posting on threads rather than
trying to curate an image I've really
been enjoying this app so far as I've
been using it feels like some people
have said like a group chat like a big
group chat with everyone you follow all
just kind of talking about threads
talking about different things that are
going on it seems like most of the
conversations on threads are currently
revolving around threads and everyone
who's signing up for it and using it and
making new memes about threads I'm sure
that will change over time once the
novelty wears off but right now it's
super fun now let's talk about the first
question that everyone has which is
should I be joining threads do I have to
join threads and of course the answer is
no you don't have to do anything you
don't have to join threads I think that
there are kind of two camps of people
two categories generally that you're
going to fall into Camp number one group
of people number one is the group of
people who's already feeling overwhelmed
burnt out frustrated with social media
or even specifically with Instagram
you're struggling to grow you're
struggling to keep up you have so many
balls that you're already juggling so
many plates that you're already spinning
and if that's you then ignore threads
you're gonna feel the fomo you're gonna
feel like you're missing out on a great
party and you might be but that's okay
that's okay you don't need to be on
threads you don't have to be there by
any means I would argue that it's much
more important to focus on your existing
platforms your existing communities the
followers you already have I mean
improving your content over there maybe
even even building your email list
rather than hopping onto this new
platform I can guarantee if you haven't
grown on any other social network
threads is not going to be the magic
solution to all of your problems it's
not going to be the platform where you
finally find wild success and of course
there's going to be that one percent of
people who do but generally speaking for
most of us that's not going to be the
case now that second group of people is
a group of people who maybe you're
juggling a lot of balls but at least you
feel like you have the time or the
energy to add one more thing to the
plate or maybe you're just so curious
that you have to check out threads and
if that's the case then totally fine by
all means check it out join and sign up
and that's really the recommendation I
would make for anyone whether you're in
Camp number one or Camp number two is at
least down download the app and at least
reserve your username I just do the bare
minimum it'll take a few minutes sign up
set up your profile and that's all you
need to do and then you can forget about
it if you're in group number one if
you're in group number two and you're
actually going to be using it I have a
few initial thoughts on what I predict
is going to be how you grow on threads
now of course the app is brand new like
I said earlier it's only been around for
about 24 hours at the time I'm recording
this so there are no studies that have
been done yet there is no large pools of
data to look at there aren't any real
you know user Behavior habits that we've
been able to do deep analytic tests on
but what I can tell you is that there
are some general truths of social media
that are constant whether you're on
Instagram Facebook reels Tick Tock
whatever even threads and so these
things are likely to be true over there
but before I share those with you I want
to also be clear that you don't have to
grow on threads you can be in group
number two which is the group that's
going to be using threads and you can
use it just for fun just for so social
just for connecting with people you
could also use it like your Instagram
stories so maybe you're not going to try
to grow on threads but you're going to
try to go deeper on threads you're going
to try to allow your audience to build
more of a connection with you build more
of that relationship and community on
threads and I think that's a great use
case not every social media is going to
be primarily for growing maybe you're
going to focus on growing your Instagram
but going deep on threads so you're
going to reach new followers on
Instagram with your reels and your feed
posts and you're going to use your
Instagram stories and your threads to
really build those relationships and let
people see more of a raw unfiltered
version of yourself and if that's the
case if that's how you plan on using
threads then I would recommend just
posting about whatever you're into all
of your interests and passions and
hobbies start conversations create
curiosity share opinions talk about
every different topic you're into just
like you would on your Instagram stories
and that can be a great way to really
build that connection or community over
on threads now if you're a part of group
number two which is the group that's
going to be using threads and you want
to grow on threads you want to use
threads to either grow a new following
or grow a following that's then going to
translate to Instagram then there are a
few things that again I can tell you are
generally true across most social media
platforms and they're likely going to be
true on threads as well and first and
foremost you're not going to like it
you're not going to like hearing this
you're going to hate me for what I'm
about to say stick to a niche and the
reason I say that is because that's how
you become known that's how people
decide to follow you people don't follow
people who just post about every random
thing unless you're just like that
interesting unless you're just that
fascinating unless you have that crazy
cool of a life unless you're like a
Kardashian and you can just do whatever
you want and people are into it well
then you're probably going to want to
become known for one thing now you can
become known for that one thing and then
Branch off into other topics once you've
built your audience just like my mom
chalene Johnson has but what I will tell
you is that generally speaking on pretty
much every social media podcasting
included YouTube reels Tick Tock
Instagram and now threads if you want to
grow the fastest and easiest path to
growth is by niching down now what do I
mean by niching down I mean getting
really clear about two things number one
what is the topic you're going to be
posting about what's that content what's
the focus of your post and then number
two what demographic of people is the
primary intended audience once you have
that Niche I would still recommend doing
this kind of thought dumping or this
public journaling that I talked about
earlier where you're sharing very off
the cuff in the moment what's just
whatever's floating in through your
brain whatever you're thinking about
whatever's popular just make sure you
filter it through the lens of okay well
it still needs to be Niche related like
over the last 24 hours I've had plenty
of random thoughts that aren't Niche
related I've thought about my coffee I
thought about my dogs I thought about a
bajillion things in the last 24 hours
but I've only posted on threads about
the random thoughts the random opinions
the projections the questions that
pertain to my Niche and why would I
recommend that well because that's real
that's authentic that's genuine there's
only one filter being placed between
your thoughts and what you type on
threads and that is the actual Niche
that you're going to be posting about
and again this is only for the group of
people who really wants to use threads
as a growth tool over time and I would
estimate probably pretty soon we're
going to start to see a lot more curated
content on threads it's inevitable and I
hope that we can push back on that or at
least push it off for as long as we can
because like I said I'm really enjoying
how raw and authentic this app is but
what I've already seen started to happen
and what I am going to recommend to you
because it is going to be a way to
create great content for Threads is to
repurpose some of your best content from
other platforms now I hate that I'm even
saying this right now because I wish
this wasn't the case I wish threads
could exist in a time and space where it
only existed for these genuine
conversations and these connections and
this dialogue But ultimately we live in
a capitalist society and we are in the
the attention economy and there's no
better place where all the attention is
right now than on threads so it's only a
matter of time it's not a question of if
but a question of when will promoters
and marketers like myself people are
trying to sell things and run
advertisements when will that group
start using threads in that way they're
already on threads myself included we're
already there but when are we going to
start using it to sell and it's
inevitable that's just where things are
going to go and of course if we're going
to be selling and promoting things well
then we're also going to want to be
reaching new audiences and growing and
putting out great content and so one of
the most reliable tried and true ways to
create great content is to not create at
all but rather to rely on things you've
posted in the past so you could take
your best Tweets your best Facebook
posts you could take your best text
posts from Instagram your best captions
from Instagram and repurpose those on
two threads now again this is not going
to be the most authentic or Genuine
strategy because you're adding extra
layers of filter before the post it's
not just whatever you're thinking it's
what you think would do best based off
what has done best in the past and I
think that's inevitable I think that's
where we're headed so I think it would
be silly for me to ignore that and to
not share that tip with you if you're
someone who you're like I just got on
threads I know I want to grow because I
want to use this for my business I want
to help grow my small mom and pop
Boutique with threads but I don't really
know what to post I I'm having like
creative blocks and I don't know what to
share a stream of conscious wise well
then maybe it's helpful for you to go
back to some of your old tweets if
you're on Twitter or go back to some of
your great captions from Instagram or
your great text posts from Instagram and
repurpose those onto threads ultimately
though and like I've said time and time
again the best kind of threads the ones
that will do the best perform the best
create the most engagement get the most
views and likes are the threads that are
genuine that are real and that create
conversations because that's what
threads is all about it's about creating
conversations about having this dialogue
back and forth so some of the best ways
to do that is to first off just ask
genuine questions not questions that you
know the answer to not questions that
are going to lead to a sale or that are
going to serve you but rather just
open-ended curious questions maybe
questions about controversial topics or
something that's kind of in the news and
has two sides to it and then of course
one step further is not just asking
those questions but actually having
conversations with people chatting back
and forth replying to people quote
threading people which is where you can
kind of reply to them more publicly so
that other people can then chime in even
further I will say there is no DM option
in Threads currently and I don't think
there will be anytime soon at least
according to Instagram CEO Adam masary
he said that we already have enough
inboxes on our phone so we as an
Instagram decided to not add another DM
inbox onto threads they're just keeping
the Instagram DM inbox as of now I could
see them doing like a shared inbox in
the future where your DMs on Instagram
also show up on threads I could also see
them just adding DMS to threads even
though that's what they said they're not
going to do but as at least as of right
now what I can tell you is that there is
no DMS on threads but there is pretty
much everything else and I might not
have mentioned this and it's important
to note I should have said this earlier
on threads while it is primarily text
based like Twitter you can also share
other forms of media like photos videos
and links but with all of this being
said I would love to hear from you are
you on threads are you going to be
joining threads are you following me on
threads of course I'm Brock 11 Johnson
on threads just like I am everywhere
else but let me know down in the
comments of this YouTube video what your
initial thoughts are what your reactions
are and let me know if this episode was
helpful for kind of explaining and
understanding this brand new platform I
can tell you even though I'm hesitant to
make bold predictions right now I'm
hesitant to make any predictions right
now because we are so early I do think
threads is going to have more sticking
power than some recent other apps like
lemonade or Clapper or be real or even
Clubhouse if you remember that from a
few years ago I think threads is going
to be a little bit more popular because
of its integration with Instagram
because of its positioning as a
alternative to Twitter which we really
don't have very many other alternatives
to Twitter I don't think Twitter is
going to die I don't think that threads
is going to kill Twitter but I do think
it's definitely going to provide a lot
of people who never joined Twitter or
got on Twitter but then weren't really
into it a new alternative and a way to
create text-based content that they
wouldn't otherwise be sharing so I'm
excited about this platform I do think
it's going to stick around at least for
the next few months if not the next few
years if not actually becoming a regular
social media app that we just all use
like we do Instagram and Facebook and
YouTube and Tick Tock but I'd love to
hear from you if you're listening to
this podcast the best place for us I'll
have conversations is over on YouTube if
you're watching on YouTube of course the
comment section is down below so you can
reply there or this might be fun send me
a thread send me a thread by typing in
approck 11 Johnson and then telling me
your thoughts on today's episode I would
love to hear from you over there I think
that'd be a really fun way to connect
this podcast about threads to the actual
app of threads but as always I don't
want you to feel overwhelmed I want you
to walk away from this episode with some
practical knowledge a sense of Peace a
better sense of understanding and I
thank you so much for being here today
and as always happy networking
[Music]
thank you